This is August 4th. This is Bob Cornish, and we are
in the office of Don Sweeney, the interim dean of
the College of Architecture and Environmental
Design. Don, could you go over some of your early
experience and how you came to be in planning? My
guess is probably sort of indirectly, but I think
probably many of us do. I was involved in a master's
degree program here in Texas A&M in health
facilities architecture. I started off with an
interest in medicine early on in my undergraduate
program, realized that I was interested in health
and not medicine, and the two are not necessarily
related, I discovered. So I finished with a degree
in English and along the way got to know a fellow on
campus. What year was that? My class of 66. got to
know a fellow who was a student here in the College
of Architecture, just entering a master's
program that was going to concentrate on health
facilities research. So I entered that program as
well because I was still interested in health and
had always been interested in facilities. And
that program studied
health care delivery generally. We didn't just
study facilities because Facilities are simply
the three-dimensional manifestation of
programmatic endeavors. So we were looking at the
whole health care delivery system. And in fact,
our whole modus operandi was systems-oriented.
We took a very broad approach to problem solving
under Gunther Schmidt's leadership, which you
will recall, the Fuhrer. The Quintero, yes. Lord
of the End. It was just natural for me anyway. I
think I tend to be oriented that way anyway,
naturally. And so I studied health facilities
planning and design, got the master's degree, and
worked for a while in New York City with the Health
and Hospital Planning Council of Southern New
York in their architectural debate. And I went to
the Army to fulfill my obligation right in the
middle of the Vietnam War. Two years of that and I
came back. I was in Korea during that period. And I
came back to pursue a doctorate. What year was
that?
I came back in 1970.
I was interested in pursuing a doctorate in health
facilities. I actually did a study for the World
Health Organization on national health planning
in developing countries. It started off to be a
project on health facilities in developing
countries, but it turned out that facilities are
really not the issue. They have architects and
engineers as good as ours. The problem was that the
decision makers in those countries do not
appreciate health as a valid point for investment
of scarce resources. They tend to want to focus on
industrial projects. instead of health and
social services. So the point we were trying to
make is that a very important key to overall
development of the country is the health and
social service infrastructure. And at that time,
I was teaching in the Department of Architecture
also. Actually, as I finished the degree, I took
over from Gunter in the building systems program
that he was in charge of. after he left for SUNY.
Yes, and the health planning courses were in the
process of being formed at that time by Joe
Sprague. How did he spell his name? Sprague was
here in the research center also, part of that
research team. had a background in architecture
and was responsible for developing four courses
in college, two in architecture and two in
planning. I had two courses in health facilities
design and two in health planning. I inherited all
those courses when he left. So I moved from systems
to an orientation
towards health facilities. And then to planning,
I inherited those courses. And then I became dean
assistant, dean for research. And when I went back
to faculty full time, it was in the department of
planning, looking after the health systems. What
year was that?
That was after Wolfgang became department head. I
think he arrived in 75.
I had to look at my resume. I really don't remember.
But I went back full time on the faculty, working in
the health systems program. All along, all
through that time, I was consulting with health
institutions and health and social service
agencies. And also, I was very actively involved
in the fiduciary capacity with regional boards
and the regional planning commission. the state
and federal agencies on various committees and
task forces and boards. I was on the board of the
American Health Planning Association. I was on a
big national task force in health planning and
health service construction for the National
Institute of Health and AGW, I guess, some time
ago. And also heads of NSF and a couple of firms in
Washington and California. I was also involved
in, have been involved with regional health
planning in Texas in all of its eras. The first one
was under Public Law 89-749, which was the
Comprehensive Health Planning Act of 66, which
Texas got into in the late 60s, early 70s. Who was
governor
of? Riscoe, I think. Actually, it was Smith in
Nebraska. We had some health planning projects
with the state health planning agency in the old
research center, and I got involved with it during
that era. Then the subsequent, so I served as a
member of the regional health planning advisory
council in finding a charity for seven years, and
then I got involved with regional alcoholism and
drug abuse services planning, and I chaired that
for seven years. And then I served on the statewide
advisory council for the Texas Commission on
Alcoholism and Drug Abuse for seven years. I
served on the state advisory council for the
Emergency Medical Services Division of Texas
Department of Health for another four years. And I
also chaired the regional emergency medical
services planning group with the COG. So I've
chaired three different advisory councils for
the Regional Planning Commission one time or
another. And I served as a board member on Humana
Hospital in the rehab center and Blue Bonnet
Psychiatric Center.
And I'm on the board of the, I'm chairman of the
board of Green Bay right now. I'm on the board with
several different health and social service
agencies.
Aside from your work with outside agencies, when
you came into the planning department, you had
been there for a year or two, as I remember. And then
we hired a part-time faculty member to help you.
And I can't remember your name. Sharon Rothman.
How do you spell her last name? R-O-T-H-M-E-L. She
was quite good, as I recall. She had a background in
planning. And she had a degree in planning. And she
had worked professionally
as a health planner in Utah. And she left because
her husband left. That's right. Do you remember
the day she joined us and left? No, I don't. That
would be, it's a matter of record here at the
university, somewhere, if we can find it. We'll
have to add it later. During that period, the
health planning program typically would run
about six or seven students, and there were some
very fine students. Dan Yazak was one. He's up in
Montana still, I believe. Yeah, he's an
administrator, hospital administrator at
Shodare Children's Hospital now, doing very
well. Mark McConathy, who did a master's and then a
Ph.D. Another person who did that was Nora
Smith-Cox. Nora Smith-Cox, who is now in
Wisconsin. She has both a master's and a Ph.D. and
there were several others who were very fine and
who had done well in the health plan field.
Wischmick, Frances Wischmick, she went through
the health plan program and worked in that field
and may still be working in that field in New
Jersey, I think.
You know, those are notable. Marina Weiss took a
doctorate here under Jim Gardner, but her areas
were social services planning, and she took all
the health planning courses. Very, very bright.
Now a senior aide with Senator Vinson.
Well, the program has sort of waxed and waned,
depending upon sort of an irregular supply of
students and projects. The conclusion that I've
come to is that one person does not a program make.
You really have to have more than just one person.
And that's really all we had. For a long time I
taught the health plan courses and the health
facilities courses in the college and really
maintained that health emphasis both in
architecture and planning alone. George Mann has
been very active in health facilities in
particular and has taken those courses in
architecture. I think it's a very important part
of the planning program.
There certainly are opportunities,
particularly in the health sector now, when
health institutions are becoming more and more
involved in the application of business
technology and basic business practices to the
delivery of health services. Just a few years ago,
it would have been obscene to see a full page ad in a
newspaper from a hospital, but now it's fairly
typical. And you see ads and et cetera, cut rate
specials, so to speak, for surgery, on and on. So
what we're seeing is that in an era of great and
increasing competition, the health
institutions are also very heavily regulated. So
they don't really have the area of price
competition. They have to find other ways to
compete. So it's very important that they plan
effectively. So strategic planning. That's the
current buzz word. And the health sector is very
important. It's now that sometimes they're
absolutely committed to it. They were forced into
it by the circumstances of the marketplace. But
also by regulation, there are various agencies
that require that they have plans. The health
planning system of the federal government
requires that. Of course, that's dormant in
Texas. It's not operational at all. Could you go
into the history of that a bit? I think that's
particularly interesting in terms of the
regional health planning sectors of Texas and
their history and where we are now and where we have
been. Well, I think that Texas, in some ways, has
been a precursor of what has happened nationally
in the area of health planning, regional health
planning in particular. The public law on 93-641,
the National Health Planning and Resource
Development, 74, mandated a nationwide health
planning system. It mandated heavy
participation by citizens, consumers in
particular. gave the numerical edge on all the
policy-making bodies to the consumers, as
opposed to the providers of health services. And
it was very, I think, interestingly organized. It
was implemented, however, both in Texas and I
think nationally, with too heavy a hand by some of
the planning zealots and the consumer advocates,
to the extent that they ultimately alienated the
participants in the traditional political arena
of the health sector. That arena has been
dominated by what's called a very cozy triangle
between health providers and health regulators
and health bureaucracy and then politicians. So
that when the consumers were thrown in the middle
of that, They screwed up all the relationships.
They were irreverent. They didn't make any deals
with anybody. They asked silly questions. And it
really screwed everything up. So ultimately, it
was just a... Probably resented by the health
providers. They were heavily resented by
everybody. And they asked silly, naive questions
about things that couldn't be answered very well.
For instance, in Texas, the state was divided up
into 12... health service areas, like super COG
areas. The one that we were in included the service
areas for BEDC, CAPCO, and SITCOG, and HOTCOG.
Four COGs. Four COG areas all together in one big
super region. Of course, these are The cog areas
are in the main, I think, fairly functional
regions. And they do, in fact, describe regional
behavior. I mean, Brazos Valley, believe it or
not, College Station is the cultural hub. And
College Station Bryan and in HGAC, it works that
way. That, in fact, is fairly a good description of
the region. Central Texas Cog, the Harbor Texas
Cog, Capital Area, ACOG, et cetera, they really
are fairly well circumscribed. take all these
groups and throw them into one big pot and say,
here, now you're a region of four COG areas, it
doesn't work. I chaired the steering committee
that wrote the application for designation for
that Central Texas Health Service area for the new
health main body that we had created, the Health
Systems Agency. The HSAs, the Health Systems
Agencies, were quite powerful as opposed to their
predecessors. voluntary health planning
agencies called 314 agencies. They just depended
upon voluntary participation at the COG level.
And they didn't have any authority over dollars.
But the HSAs were organized as private and
for-profit corporations, most of them. And they
had policy-making authority, and they had
control of the budget of many millions of dollars
of health money. Well, that attracted great
attention. So whereas in the past, the advisory
boards of the 314 agencies had been made up of
consumers and others sort of voluntarily going
along with things. When these new agencies
developed, there was a great deal of competition
to make sure that you were on the board, you were
represented somehow, and your hospital needed to
be represented. at saying your agency needed to be
represented and your professional association
needed to be represented. So it was quite an
experiment. They developed health plans for the
regions that were very complicated and very
difficult to do. Some of our health plan graduates
participated in that all over the state of Texas.
Some of them actually ran the agencies.
And they did things that make sense in terms of
regional planning. For instance, you have a
region and you have a comprehensive health plan,
you would expect that all that various health
components would fit into that. Even if they were,
even if there were state agencies, they ought to
fit into that. They're serving that area. So, and
in fact that's what occurred. So it happened that
all the state agencies that have health programs,
and there are over, almost 30 of them that do, had to
be their plans and their activities had to be
consistent with the health plan of the region. Now
that makes sense in terms of planning. It's
dynamite politically. So when the Texas
Commission on Alcoholism was developing their
regional plans, they had to bring them before the
HSAs, the health service areas, to be blessed. And
if they didn't get blessed, they had to go back and
fix them until they were. Now that makes sense in
terms of planning. It's rational. It's totally
rational. On the other hand, these agencies
weren't used to having anybody else look over
their shoulders. And they hated it. So the
agencies were alienated, the bureaucracy. The
politicians were alienated because these
agencies, as nonprofit corporations, were not
beholden to them. The governor couldn't control
them. The mayors couldn't control them. They
looked more to Washington than they did to Austin
for their sustenance. And so they were... Shades
of the model cities program. Yeah, it was almost,
you could say, doomed from the start. The
providers didn't like me either because of these
complicated consumers who kept asking silly
questions. Were they really silly? No, they
weren't silly at all. They were questions that
they had difficulty answering. Probably too
common sense oriented. Not technically, I don't
know. I don't mean to defame the providers
necessarily. There were a lot of enthusiastic
participants. But
when White came into office, although he had run on
one of his planks was that he was going to save
health planning. In fact, he allowed the
continued degeneration of the health planning
system that had been started by his predecessor,
wild bill. And it was under White's regime that all
the federal funding was jerked by the state. And
they were, in fact, they were all wiped out. It was
all over. And I think it was a very sad thing. Now we
see in Texas a resurgence of voluntary regional
health funding back to the COG level again. You
don't have to participate, but it would be good if
you did, et cetera. And I chair that committee here
in the region. So the pendulum is swinging back.
Well, Don, at one time, as I remember locally here,
when Humana was thinking of building a new
hospital, St. Joseph's effectively blocked it
for quite a long time. They did it through the
health planning system. OK. And what mechanism
did the health planning system have? Well, the
idea was that in order to control costs that were
rapidly increasing in the health sector, you had
to control capital investment. And if you could
control capital investment, then you could
control this expansion. So the idea was that if you
wanted to expand your facility, Or if you wanted to
add a new facility or add a new service, you had to
get what was called a certificate of need from the
state. Not a certificate of demand, but a
certificate of need. You had to show that the
community that you served, in fact, needed what
you wanted to do. Well, through that mechanism...
That came from which organization? Well, in Texas
it was split. You would think that would be under
the group that's involved with implementation
plans. But in fact, there was a new health agency
created by the legislature called the Texas
Health Facilities Commission, which was not at
all, was not in any way associated with the health
department or with the health planning, state
health planning. So it was crazy. And by
definition, the commissioners of the Health
Facilities Commission could not have had any
prior experience with health facilities. I was
really nuts. Anyway, so you had to go before this
group and
it was like a hearing. In fact, it was exactly what
it was. They had a hearing and all the testimony had
to be entered verbally. There was nothing written
that was accepted. And you had to get up and present
your case. Humana argued that this area would
continue to grow and that we needed additional
beds. general acute care and we also needed
general additional beds for pediatric and OB and
St. Joseph's argued the counter because it was not
to their best interest for there to be increased
competition.
That went on for about four years and the first time
it came to the ruling The commission ruled in favor
of St. Joseph's totally and turned down Humanity
completely. So St. Joseph's was allowed to expand
its OB and add new beds, and Humanity was not
allowed to do anything. Well, Humanity was
furious, and they kept on fighting. And then right
about the time that they finally won, the Texas
Health Facilities Commission, six weeks later,
went out of business. So it was a moot point anyway.
So now they've built and have opened up. And the
competition that we're seeing in the community, I
think, is very healthy. And, of course, we now have
Scott and White. Scott and White's here. They're
doing very well in Greenleaf's building,
Sandstone's building. What's happening is that
we're seeing... We have a new building for the
rehab center. Yeah. So we're seeing the
development of the regional headquarters, the
regional system, regional focus right here in
Bryant College Station for health care. And it's
going to be... It's just a pity, in my opinion, that
It all didn't happen as a center, as a medical
complex somewhere within the Metropolitan area,
rather than having one of the newer facilities,
well, two of them. Well, it would have if St.
Joseph's hadn't fought Humana. Humana's first
proposal was to expand their current facility.
And when that was turned down, they said, we're
leaving Bryan. We're going to go to College
Station. We're going to build a whole new
facility. And up to that point, they intend to stay
and enrich the health center that was developed.
There are various ways to look at it. Really, the
issue is access. And in terms of access, we don't
have very much of a problem here anyway. And you can
see that St. Joe's from this building will be there
in less than 10 minutes. In most urban areas, you
have a hard time doing that. Well, you can be almost
anywhere within the area here in 10 minutes.
That's true. But if you look at the future, which is
really what we're planning for, it could very well
be that their move south might end up being very
smart. In the area of psychiatric care, I think
we're going to see this area become a regional
center or a state center. The reason for that is
that there is a great deal of interest people have
traditionally in being hospitalized outside of
their home communities for psychiatric illness.
There's a lot of stigma still associated with it.
If possible, they'll go outside the town. Well,
we're right in the middle of this huge urban
triangle that will be one of the largest in the US.
It's massive. It's going to be bigger. So you can be
hospitalized in College Station, and your folks
or your spouse or your family can visit you from San
Antonio or Dallas or Austin or Waco or Houston
without too much trouble you're within reach.
Some people have referred to our area as being
centrally isolated. Yeah, that may be it. But it's
been an interesting endeavor or exercise to see
this mix through the marketplaces really was
having an impact. And in health care delivery,
planning is not so important regionally right now
as it is institutionally.
The most important thing that, in Texas at least,
that the regional health planning bodies do is
provide a forum. where health providers and
others can come together and talk about things.
The networking, particularly, the bridging,
potentially, is very important. But the issue of
control, that is developing, in fact, a regional
plan and implementing it, is not one that we're
likely to see come up again for a while. It runs
counter with the Texas values, that sort of
centralization The detections are just
suspecting that. Maybe a good reason, I'm not
sure. But that's just not the way we do things here,
I guess, if they tell you. There's another
facility that we probably should mention. That's
the university's program for fitness with their
sport medicine program. And that ties in with the
rehab center's work, I'm sure, and with all the
cardiology specialists in the area? Yeah, this
area is just really expanding. In the last five
years, the number of physicians has more than
doubled. We have virtually almost every
specialty that you can imagine. Better to have the
physicians double than the lawyers double. Well,
they'll be behind me. They'll be following me. The
more ambulances chasing me. Oh, boy. Don, we have
now a new faculty member in health planning. Would
you go into that? Sherry Bain is a nurse. Part of her
background is nursing. She's a sociologist with a
PhD in sociology from Michigan. She joined our
planning faculty in 86, 87. She has very good
research skills. and has spent a lot of time
working with the various health organizations in
the administration.
She and I look forward to having more time to work
together. In the current position, we don't have
much time to do that, to develop the health systems
program. She's currently half time in the
department? She's currently 25% with medicine,
where she continues to serve as, I think,
director. or a coordinator of some such in the
Center for Health Systems and Technology. I think
that that 75% split will stay through academic
year 87, 88. 75% with us? With us. After that, she
will probably be 100% with the plan.
That's the current plan at this point. Okay, we've
recently gone through a APA accreditation visit
and they have written their comments and so forth
and the department and the college have responded
to their comments. Do you have any views on that or
anything you care to add? We dealt with all the
issues that they brought up. And all of them had
even been able to hire a new planner and person for
the faculty. And with the appointment of a
permanent dean, that was the remaining problem,
that they didn't have a permanent department
here. And with the appointment of Dr. McCarthy as
permanent dean, then I'll be returning to the
department in January of 88. And that was the only
thing that was holding us up for full
accreditation, which I feel sure that we'll get
the next meeting at the front of the accreditation
board, which I think is in October. I believe it is.
I've recently interviewed at UT Arlington, and
several of the faculty members expressed doubt
that they would be re-accredited by EPA for
various reasons. And apparently it's becoming
very difficult to get that accreditation now. So
if we get it, why not? Well, we have no reason to
believe that we won't. The PAB has been very
complimentary for the way the university has
responded. They said we needed more space, so the
university built us space. That's how we got that
room up here. They said we needed more faculty. We
got another faculty member. And we'll be getting a
permanent department head back, which will
re-focus on the MUP degree, I would think, which
was one of their complaints. Yes. Yeah, I think
that's important, too. Right now, I think for the
fall, we're looking at 28 MUP and 28 MSLD and 40
doctoral students, in my opinion. In my opinion,
20 doctoral students would be adequate,
particularly if they were active. Many of those 40
or ABDs will never finish. You probably shouldn't
be carrying them still. But 40 doctoral students
for high-sized factories is much too hard. I don't
know how we can do it responsibly. And I really
think the NDP should, to me, the NDP should be up. It
has a decent critical mass when it's up around 60 or
80. I think 60 should be a
minimum. In SLD, I think it would be fairly
self-regulated. It probably won't get too much
larger than it is. But I think that there's some
really interesting vitality that we can get from
that mixture. I think so. The two groups are quite
different in terms of the types of personalities
they attract. Oh, sure. But I think that's useful.
So many times I see planners with a predictably
adversarial perspective towards developers
that may be well-deserved. I mean, we all have seen
unscrupulous developers. They've screwed up a
lot. Yeah. We've seen unscrupulous developers.
But actually, the cities really need
entrepreneurs who provide capital and take
risks. And the entrepreneurs have a need for a city
that's well-planned to protect their
investments and to let them know how things are
going to be in the future, et cetera. So I really
think that there's a potential for a symbiotic
relationship instead of an adversarial one. And I
hope that these two groups of students in close
proximity will precipitate some meaningful
discussions. And hopefully the MDPs who tend to be
public sector-oriented We'll learn to
appreciate the needs of the entrepreneur. And the
MSLDs, who are entrepreneurial, will learn to
appreciate something about the planners. I heard
one developer say that a planner's job was to see
that you can't do yours. So it goes both ways, you
see. And that's unfortunate. That doesn't have to
be that way either. I think there are good examples
where developers have approached cities very
responsibly. And there were planning staffs who
worked with developers to achieve a project of
value that would never have been possible
otherwise. And I think it's important that our
students be socialized in professional school to
have what I think would be a healthier attitude. We
ought not to be unnecessarily adversarial. I
think if you've got a guy that's out to rape the
public, then it is our responsibility. I think
it's OK to be watchful, but not adversarial. If it
weren't for people willing to pick up the
responsibility for entrepreneurial
enterprise, then we'd end up with state-run
capitalism. And that would lead to a pretty dead
type of hand on development. I think the
department offers a very interesting mix of
attitudes. They take a course with you, and they
get the planning gospel according to Cornish. And
they take one with Chewy, and they get it according
to Hinojosa. And then Rosa's got his own version,
and Pew's got his version. And they take it from me,
and it's another perspective. And I think that's
important because there is no one perspective. I
remember Nietzsche said... This is my way. What's
your way? The way doesn't exist. And that's
important. They have to develop their own
professional ethics and their own professional
perspectives on things. Well, it troubles the
students because they don't know this. And we have
to tell them if they really come to a point where
it's becoming a mental problem for them that they
can't seem to adjust to all of the various
philosophies while they're in school. And I
always tell them not to expect to do it until
they're out of school for two or three years. Then
we'll all start coming together. When it does,
they'll know it. They really do.
I think the doctoral program is very important
because we need to have a good theoretical
framework for the field. You know, we're such an
eclectic profession that really our theoretical
base comes from other disciplines.
We are essentially applied sociology. I think
it's important that we spend some time working on
theory. A lot of our great, many of our doctoral
research endeavors in the past have been
extremely applied. I think there's room for
theory. Theory is ultimately very practical
because it explains things. It gives a framework,
a construct for which to view things. I'm
delighted to hear you say that for several
reasons. One, I teach the course. And two, I think
that theory is very practical because it gives the
student a shorthand way of analyzing problems.
And he can or she can deal with them very
effectively and very quickly. understanding
what the theoretical framework is that they're
dealing with. We have a lot to learn, I think, or
we've perhaps already learned it, but we need to
incorporate it knowing that we're getting it from
sociology and psychology, particularly small
group psychology, political science,
economics, even some in management. Management
is another eclectic endeavor as well. I think
particularly the behavioral sciences
Architecture, I don't think, has much of a
theoretical framework either. We do, of course,
deal with design issues. I think whatever
architecture has to offer us, we ought to become
cognizant of. That's one of the things I think that
bothers me. It seems that we're moving away from
the design base that our disciplines have in the
past. Maybe that's not bad, I suppose, but it I
would like to see our students exposed, at least, a
little more systematically. That is to say that we
don't allow a student to miss exposure to design.
They pick it up, but without a better design base
than some of them have. I don't think they pick up
very much of it. We used to be very visual and very
design-oriented. Now we're much more analytical
and textually-oriented. That may be simply
commentary of the sign of the times, but it seems to
me that there's something to be said for a person
not really understanding
the urban design issues when we're talking about
urban planning. Planning, I'm always bothered by
that a little bit. Planning is simply a function of
management. We are those people who have decided
to specialize in one aspect of planning. urban or
regional setting. One aspect of management.
Well, no, really one aspect of planning. One
manifestation of planning.
Because we tend to deal primarily with the
physical. Planning of physical. Physical
planning. I think I'm probably less so. I'm
involved more with health systems than with
health facilities. There are always facilities,
manifestations of that. But I'm... I think that
this department probably has a reputation of
being strong in physical planning. And that
probably is the result of the backgrounds of the
faculty. But that has been changing over the
years. And it will continue to change as some of us
retire who have had strong physical design
backgrounds. Well, I think it's important that we
replace people who are leaving with with faculty
who have similar orientations in that respect.
The department will probably be having to look for
people with PhDs more and more, since we're going
much more into research orientation at the
University in general, and our college in
particular, than we ever have before. The chances
of getting somebody with a design background are
remote, then. It's not easy. They're around.
People who have a design background, a planning
background, both academic and professional, who
also have PhDs.
What has surprised me about the program here is
that it hasn't been more physically
design-oriented than it has, considering the
faculty. And I think the faculty has, in fact, made
an effort to accommodate the changing forces on
planning profession as they've come into view
with the, for example, the urban riots and the need
for understanding the social aspects of planning
and how they generate the needs for physical
accommodation and also political And of course,
Jim Gartner was particularly strong there. He was
an elected official on several occasions. And
then the new era of economic concerns that we've
all got to get up to speed on. Yeah, I think that's
true. I think the new religion of economic
development
It's very important that our students are exposed
to the economic issues. I mean, a city is an
economic entity. That's why it exists. It deals
with the basic economic issues of life, shelter,
food, security. Need for specialization. What
struck me as being interesting was a comment made
by Terry Kahn in Austin this Tuesday. And they have
a land development emphasis
within their MEP program, which is quite well
defined. And that faculty feels that it's more
appropriate for their MSNCP degree to have it a
well-defined area of concern within the master's
in planning degree rather than going for an MS in
land development. Here we have not chosen to do
that. We have our MS in land development and NEP, as
I say, are separate degrees. I would hope that
there's some cross-fertilization. I think there
is.
I think it tends, the land development emphasis
tends to have more of an impact on the planning
students than the planning students do on the land
development students, which I think is
unfortunate.
So far, I think that's true.
How do you, what anticipations do you have for next
year, moving back to the
department? Well, I think it'll be interesting to
see how our new dean works out and what he does. He
has told me that he has great promises of
additional revenue or resources from the
university. And I hope that that's true. And I hope
that we get our fair share of that.
I don't know, Bob. I've been away from the
apartment for so long, I don't even know what to
expect. I know that in some ways it's running right
now like a fine-tooth watch. Very certainly,
in many ways. Aspects of that are certainly worth
keeping.
We have... You mentioned physical planning and
urban design.
That brings up the topic of the lab. And I'm just
wondering, you and I have discussed an
undergraduate degree and restructuring of the
numbering system for the courses in the
department, all of which have had to be put on hold
for whatever reasons. And I'm just wondering if
you've had a chance to give that much thought in
terms of instituting an undergraduate degree
program in urbanism.
I haven't thought about it much since we talked
about that. I mean, we did a major study on that
about a year ago. We found a lot of interest across
the campus. It may be timely in that we've gone
forward with the core curriculum. across the
university. It may well be that it would be seen as a
natural extension of that.
On the other hand, it might be viewed as being the
wrong time in terms of economic conditions.